The Abyss' hold over Natlan, Gosoythoth's mockery of the Pyro Sovereign and Archons, any fears for Natlan's future... time to burn them all away.

Numerous instances of Void Wards and Attrition attacks are present in this battle, so come prepared for them with Nightsoul-aligned attacks or elemental attacks that hit rapidly. The buffs the Pyro Traveler is given exclusively for this boss can help considerably when dealing with the Void Wards, courtesy of the blades fired off from basic attacks.

Some of the attacks you'll encounter will affect the ground, leaving either burning or corrupted ground. Corrupted ground will deal a slight amount of Attrition damage in addition to standard damage. These affected areas will be cleared away by certain attacks, but be mindful while they're still in your way.

The Lord of Eroded Primal Fire will vary its attacks according to how far the battle has progressed. Be ready for these shifts.


At the start of the battle, should the Eroded Lord form a purple sphere in its hand, it will summon four purple orbs that will be fired at you. Get far away from them, and they should crash into the ground.

If you're too far away from the Eroded Lord, it can dash forward to perform a flaming slash that burns the ground. If you're very far away, this won't even reach you (and trying to move forward and dash will get you hit by the burnt ground).

If the Eroded Lord raises its flaming sword, it will smash it on the arena to create a massive Pyro blast in front of the Eroded Lord. While intimidating, it doesn't burn the ground and is a single hit - a properly timed dash will nullify it.

Should the Eroded Lord bring its flaming sword to its side, it will perform a sideways slash, followed by another slash in the other direction. Dash in time with each slash. The second slash is substantially delayed - use the Eroded Lord's turning body as a timing guide.

If the Eroded Lord brings darkness to the ground, it will cover the arena in darkness and summon three Tenebrous Mimiflora with weak Void Wards that fire their homing projectiles at you. Destroy the Mimiflora in a time limit to stun the Eroded Lord. The Pyro Traveler's (and Mavuika's) elemental skill and blades will clear the darkness. Failing to clear this in time (and be warned, the time limit for this is rather strict) will cause the Eroded Lord to target you with a shadowy hand - wait for the hand to start forming, then dash out of the zone under you.

If the Eroded Lord plunges its sword to the ground, it will gain a Void Ward and summon flame waves at intervals. Focus on breaking the Void Ward, but time dashes to the waves when possible, as they'll stagger you. Failure to break this Ward will let the Eroded Lord hurl a dark projectile that will attempt to suck you in - get some distance from the Eroded Lord and run from the suction effect.


If the Eroded Lord teleports to a fixed location, it can cause a rain of fire upon the arena - this doesn't hit the arena right in front of the Eroded Lord, so keep attacking. Afterwards, the Eroded Lord will use a massive flaming blade to cut part of the arena away with a vast blast radius. While you can dodge this with a timed dash, you can also just run out of the area indicated by the flame graphics. The Eroded Lord may shrink the arena up to three times in this fashion in a single fight.

The first time the Eroded Lord breaks the arena signifies the transition of the fight to the next phase. All of the previous phase's attacks will no longer appear, with the following new attacks being used instead.

If the Eroded Lord states "Fall before the final blade!" and readies both of its swords, it will plunge them into the ground and send out explosions forward, then fire a sweeping beam back and forth. If you can run forward past the initial blade stab, the entire rest of the attack will miss you - time a dash forward with the blade stab toward the Eroded Lord, and run in and attack while it's busy with its breath attack.

The Eroded Lord has a different sword combo in this phase. It will use a three swipe combo, first with its flame sword, then its darkness sword, and ending with a combination slash. These slashes all send out blade projectiles. Once again, this attack is mostly about learning the timing of the dashes to allow you to stay in attacking range of the Eroded Lord.

The Eroded Lord may also choose to gather energy and release a barrage of projectiles. However, just like with the fire rain for its arena-breaking attack, this attack is completely harmless if you remain next to the Eroded Lord - stay close and keep attacking.

The Eroded Lord may choose to take to the sky and perform a pair of sweeping slashes - time dashes as the Eroded Lord moves forward. The Eroded Lord will then disappear, and abyssal geysers will erupt from the ground, leaving damaging ground where they were. Focus your attention on the ground and move accordingly - keeping your camera upwards can be risky because the geyser graphics are huge, and may end up covering where another geyser is forming. The Eroded Lord is moving as a purple mist during this time - once it reforms after the geysers end, it will perform another pair of slashes. The Eroded Lord moves forward a huge distance while performing these slashes, so be ready to dodge the second slash that gets performed here.

Should the Eroded Lord create a Void Ward on itself during the second phase, it will build up energy. Break the Void Ward to stun the Eroded Lord. Failure to do so will result in an arena-wide blast that deals devastating damage, including massive Attrition damage (in the same vein as the Tenebrous Papilla).

Once per battle, if the Eroded Lord leaves the battlefield, it will create an unavoidable vortex that sucks you into the center of the arena, then summons three Void Wards. You have a time limit to break these Void Wards in order to stun the Eroded Lord. Each time you break a Void Ward during this attack, the party's energy is completely restored. During this time, three vortex blasts will build up and unleash on the entire arena, dealing light damage and some Attrition damage. Fail to break the Void Wards (you have until just after the third vortex blast to do this), and a massive meteor will be dropped on you, doing severe damage and enormous Attrition damage. Use Nightsoul attacks to rapidly deal with the Void Wards, and heal to account for the vortex attacks. Be liberal with using Bursts here as necessary, since breaking the Void Wards will give the Bursts back to you.
